---
title: "DIMM-Link: Enabling Efficient Inter-DIMM Communication for Near-Memory Processing"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2023-1-hpca
date: 2023-03-24
venue: 'International Symposium on High-Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA)'
---
DIMM-based near-memory processing architectures (DIMM-NMP) have received growing interest from both academia and industry. They have the advantages of large memory capacity, low manufacturing cost, high flexibility, compatible form factor, etc. However, inter-DIMM communication (IDC) has become a critical obstacle for generic DIMM-NMP architectures because it involves costly forwarding transactions through the host CPU. Recent research has demonstrated that, for many applications, the overhead induced by IDC may even offset the performance and energy benefits of near-memory processing.To tackle this problem, we propose DIMM-Link, which enables high-performance IDC in DIMM-NMP architectures and supports seamless integration with existing host memory systems. It adopts bidirectional external data links to connect DIMMs, via which point-to-point communication and inter-DIMM broadcast are efficiently supported in a packet-routing way. We present the full-stack design of DIMM-Link, including the hardware architecture, interconnect protocol, system organization, routing mechanisms, optimization strategies, etc. Comprehensive experiments on typical data-intensive tasks demonstrate that the DIMM-Link-equipped NMP system can achieve a 5.93× average speedup over the 16-core CPU baseline. Compared to other IDC methods, DIMM-Link outperforms MCN, AIM, and ABC-DIMM by 2.42×, 1.87×, and 1.77×, respectively. More importantly, DIMM-Link fully considers the implementation feasibility and system integration constraints, which are critical for designing NMP architectures based on modern DDR4/DDR5 DIMMs.

[Download paper here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10071005)

```
@inproceedings{zhou2023dimm,
  title={Dimm-link: Enabling efficient inter-dimm communication for near-memory processing},
  author={Zhou, Zhe and Li, Cong and Yang, Fan and Sun, Guangyu},
  booktitle={2023 IEEE International Symposium on High-Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA)},
  pages={302--316},
  year={2023},
  organization={IEEE}
}
```